{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff140\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f140\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}CG Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f142\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f143\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f145\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f146\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f147\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f148\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f149\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f150\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f152\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f153\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f155\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}
{\f156\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f157\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f158\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f159\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f160\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;\red51\green51\blue153;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faroman\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f140\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 footer;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 
header;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 \ssemihidden endnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{
\s19\qc \li0\ri0\sa720\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f140\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Title;}{\*\cs20 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}}{\*\pgptbl {\pgp\ipgp0\itap0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0}}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid617114\rsid1573378\rsid3169065\rsid3240127\rsid4748232\rsid5129414\rsid6711404\rsid7031788\rsid7622999\rsid7682525\rsid7830418\rsid8280737\rsid9180190\rsid9374105\rsid11500021\rsid11677950\rsid12023804\rsid12352946\rsid12409550
\rsid13762969\rsid14179717\rsid14241319\rsid14695457\rsid16654426}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info{\author Envision Corporation}
{\doccomm \'a9 Copyright Envision Corporation. 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States & Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENS
E OR SUBLICENSE, }{\operator Envision}{\creatim\yr2002\mo6\dy17\hr16\min42}{\revtim\yr2002\mo10\dy6\hr16\min43}{\printim\yr1994\mo10\dy27\hr10\min37}{\version17}{\edmins14}{\nofpages12}{\nofwords5867}{\nofchars33445}{\*\company Envision Corporation}
{\nofcharsws39234}{\vern16437}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz0\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\fracwidth\dghspace120\dgvspace120
\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\bdrrlswsix\nolnhtadjtbl\oldas\rsidroot14695457 \fet0\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid3169065\sftnbj {\header \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14179717 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs13\cf8\insrsid14179717\charrsid14179717 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\f1\fs13\cf8\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{
\f1\fs13\cf8\insrsid14179717\charrsid14179717 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States & Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PU
BLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri360\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faroman\rin360\lin0\itap0 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\insrsid7031788 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 
\f140\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid7622999 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft10745\shptop14220\shpright10865\shpbottom14400\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz3\shplid1026{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 65536}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{
\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{\insrsid9374105  &}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 
 Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD CO
PY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190 
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8195\dptxbx\dptxlrtb{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{
\insrsid9374105  &}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969  Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD CO
PY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190 
\par }}\dpx10745\dpy14220\dpxsize120\dpysize180\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat1\dplinehollow}}}
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft10573\shptop-1570\shpright10813\shpbottom-1390\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz2\shplid1027{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 131072}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{
\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{\insrsid9374105  &}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 
 Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRI
CTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190 
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8194\dptxbx\dptxlrtb{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{
\insrsid9374105  &}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969  Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRI
CTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190 
\par }}\dpx10573\dpy-1570\dpxsize240\dpysize180\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat1\dplinehollow}}}
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft-1541\shptop-360\shpright-1421\shpbottom12780\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt0\shpz1\shplid1028{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 196608}}{\sp{\sn txflTextFlow}{\sv 2}}{\sp{\sn hspNext}{\sv 1028}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}
{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525              }{\insrsid9374105 

\par 
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525 
. 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States and Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER 
PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL AUTOMATICALLY BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8193\dptxbx\dptxbtlr{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525              }{\insrsid9374105 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525 
. 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States and Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER 
PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL AUTOMATICALLY BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }}\dpx-1541\dpy-360\dpxsize120\dpysize13140\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat0\dplinehollow}}}}{\b\f1\fs32\insrsid7031788\charrsid7830418 BASIC FACTS ABOUT
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f1\fs32\insrsid7031788\charrsid7830418 REGISTERING A TRADEMARK}{\b\f1\fs32\insrsid8280737  IN USA}{
\b\f1\fs32\insrsid7031788\charrsid7830418 
\par }{\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid7622999 {\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft2\shptop196\shpright9356\shpbottom196\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr2\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt0\shpz0\shplid1029
{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 20}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn shapePath}{\sv 4}}{\sp{\sn fFillOK}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 31750}}{\sp{\sn fArrowheadsOK}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}
{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8192\dpline\dpptx0\dppty0\dpptx9354\dppty0\dpx2\dpy196\dpxsize9354\dpysize0\dplinew50\dplinecor0\dplinecog0\dplinecob0}}}}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid12409550 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid8280737 What Is a Trademark?
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par A TRADEMARK is either a word, phrase, symbol or design, or combination of words, phrases, symbols or designs, which identifies and distinguishes the source of the goods or services of one party from those of others.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{
\f1\insrsid7031788 A service mark is the same as a trademark except that it identifies and distinguishes the source of a service
 rather than a product. Throughout this booklet the terms "trademark" and "mark" are used to refer to both trademarks and service marks whether they are word marks or other types of marks. Normally, a mark for goods appears on the product or on its packag
ing, while a service mark appears in advertising for the services.
\par 
\par A trademark is different from a copyright or a patent. A copyright protects an original artistic or literary work; a patent protects an invention.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 For copyright information call the Library
 of Congress at (202) 707-3000.
\par 
\par }{\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid5129414 Establishing Trademark Rights
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par Trademark rights arise from either (1) actual use of the mark, or (2) the filing of a proper application to register a mark in the Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) stating that the applicant
 has a bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce regulated by the U.S. Congress. (See below, under "Types of Applications," for a discussion of what is meant by the terms commerce and use in commerce.) Federal registration is not required to establi
s
h rights in a mark, nor is it required to begin use of a mark. However, federal registration can secure benefits beyond the rights acquired by merely using a mark. For example, the owner of a federal registration is presumed to be the owner of the mark fo
r the goods and services specified in the registration, and to be entitled to use the mark nationwide.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par There are two related but distinct types of rights in a mark: the right to register and the right to use. Generally, the first party who either uses a mark in commerce or files an application in the PTO has the ultimate right to register that mark.}{
\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The PTO's authority is limited to determining the right to register. The right to use a mark can be more complicated to determine. This is particularly true wh
en two parties have begun use of the same or similar marks without knowledge of one another and neither has a federal registration.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Only a court can render a decision about the right to use, such as issuing an injunction or awarding damages for infringemen
t. It should be noted that a federal registration can provide significant advantages to a party involved in a court proceeding. The PTO cannot provide advice concerning rights in a mark.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Only a private attorney can provide such advice.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par Unlike copyrights 
or patents, trademark rights can last indefinitely if the owner continues to use the mark to identify its goods or services. The term of a federal trademark registration is 10 years, with 10-year renewal terms. However, between the fifth and sixth year af
ter the date of initial registration, the registrant must file an affidavit setting forth certain information to keep the registration alive.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 If no affidavit is filed, the registration is canceled.}{
\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid5129414 Types of Applications for Federal Registration
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par An applicant may apply for federal registration in three principal ways.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 (1) An applicant who has already commenced using a mark in commerce may file based on that use (a "use" application).}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }
{\f1\insrsid7031788 (2) An applicant who has not yet used the mark may apply based on
 a bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce (an "intent-to-use" application). For the purpose of obtaining federal registration, commerce means all commerce which may lawfully be regulated by the U.S. Congress, for example, interstate commerce or c
ommerce between the U.S. and another country.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The use in commerce must be a bona fide use in the ordinary course of trade, and not made merely to reserve a right in a mark.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{
\f1\insrsid7031788 Use of a mark in pr
omotion or advertising before the product or service is actually provided under the mark on a normal commercial scale does not qualify as use in commerce. Use of a mark in purely local commerce within a state does not qualify as "use in commerce."}{
\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 If an ap
plicant files based on a bona fide intention to use in commerce, the applicant will have to use the mark in commerce and submit an allegation of use to the PTO before the PTO will register the mark (See page 12). (3) Additionally, under certain internatio
nal agreements, an applicant from outside the United States may file in the United States based on an application or registration in another country.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
For information regarding applications based on international agreements please call the information number provided on page 4.
\par 
\par A United States registration provides protection only in the United States and its territories. If the owner of a mark wishes to protect a mark in other countries, the owner must seek protection in each country separately under the re
levant laws. The PTO cannot provide information or advice concerning protection in other countries.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Interested parties may inquire directly in the relevant country or its U.S. offices or through an attorney.

\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid6711404 Who May File an Application?
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par The application 
must be filed in the name of the owner of the mark; usually an individual, corporation or partnership. The owner of a mark controls the nature and quality of the goods or services identified by the mark. See below in the line-by-line instructions for info
rmation about who must sign the application and other papers.
\par 
\par The owner may submit and prosecute its own application for registration, or may be represented by an attorney. The PTO cannot help select an attorney.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid6711404 Foreign Applicants
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par Applicants not living in the United States must designate in writing the name and address}{\f1\insrsid6711404  of a domestic representative \endash }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
 a person residing in the United States "upon whom notices of process may be served for proceedings affecting the mark." The applicant may do so by submittin
g a statement that the named person at the address indicated is appointed as the applicant's domestic representative under \'a7
1(e) of the Trademark Act. The applicant must sign this statement. This person will receive all communications from the PTO unless the applicant is represented by an attorney in the United States.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid6711404 Searches for Conflicting Marks
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par An applicant is not required to conduct a search for conflicting marks prior to applying with the PTO. However, some people find it useful. In evaluating an 
application, an examining attorney conducts a search and notifies the applicant if a conflicting mark is found. The application fee, which covers processing and search costs, will not be refunded even if a conflict is found and the mark cannot be register
ed.
\par 
\par To determine whether there is a conflict between two marks, the PTO determines whether there would be likelihood of confusion, that is, whether relevant consumers would be likely to associate the goods or services of one party with those of the other p
arty as a result of the use of the marks at issue by both parties. The principal factors to be considered in reaching this decision are the similarity of the marks and the commercial relationship between the goods and services identified by the marks. To 
find a conflict, the marks need not be identical, and the goods and services do not have to be the same.
\par 
\par }{\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid7622999 {\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft-1406\shptop-120\shpright-1286\shpbottom13020\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt0\shpz4\shplid1030
{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 262144}}{\sp{\sn txflTextFlow}{\sv 2}}{\sp{\sn hspNext}{\sv 1030}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 
\f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525              }{\insrsid9374105 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the 
copyright laws of the United States and Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FO
RM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL AUTOMATICALLY BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8196\dptxbx\dptxbtlr{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525              }{\insrsid9374105 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the 
copyright laws of the United States and Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FO
RM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL AUTOMATICALLY BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }}\dpx-1406\dpy-120\dpxsize120\dpysize13140\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat0\dplinehollow}}}
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft10708\shptop-1330\shpright10948\shpbottom-1150\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz5\shplid1031{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 327680}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{
\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{\insrsid9374105  &}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 
 Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY
 PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190 
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8197\dptxbx\dptxlrtb{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{
\insrsid9374105  &}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969  Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY
 PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190 
\par }}\dpx10708\dpy-1330\dpxsize240\dpysize180\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat1\dplinehollow}}}}{\f1\insrsid7031788 The PTO does not conduct searches for the public to
 determine if a conflicting mark is registered, or is the subject of a pending application, except as noted above when acting on an application.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
However, there are a variety of ways to get this same type of information.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 First, by performing a search in the
 PTO public search library. The search library is located on the second floor of the South Tower Building, 2900 Crystal Drive, Arlington, Virginia}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
22202. Second, by visiting a patent and trademark depository library (at locations listed on pages 14 and 15). These libraries have CD-ROMS containing the trademark database of registered and pending marks.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Finally, either a private trademark search company, or an attorney who deals with trademark law, can provide trademark registration information. The PTO cannot provide advice about possible conflicts between marks.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid6711404 Laws & Rules Governing Federal Registration
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par The federal registration of trademarks is governed by the Trademark Act of 1946, as amended, 15 U.S.C. \'a71051 et seq.; the Trademark Rules, 37 C.F.R. Part 2; and the Trademark Manual of Examining Procedure (2d ed. 1993).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid6711404 Other Types of Applications
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par In addition to trademarks and service marks, the Trademark Act provides for federal registration of other types of marks, such as certification marks, collec
tive trademarks and service marks, and collective membership marks. These types of marks are relatively rare. For forms and information regarding the registration of these marks, please call the appropriate trademark information number indicated below.

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid6711404 Where to Send the Application and Correspondence
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par The application and all other correspondence should be addressed to }{\f1\cf17\insrsid7031788\charrsid6711404 "The Assistant Commissioner for Trademarks, 2900 Crystal Drive, Arlington, Virginia 22202-3513.}{\f1\insrsid7031788 "}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{
\f1\insrsid7031788 The initial application should be directed to }{\f1\cf17\insrsid7031788\charrsid6711404 "Box NEW APP / FEE}{\f1\insrsid7031788 ."}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 An AMENDMENT TO ALLEGE USE should be directed to "}{
\f1\cf17\insrsid7031788\charrsid6711404 Attn. AAU.}{\f1\insrsid7031788 "}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 A STATEMENT OF USE or REQUEST FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE A STATEMENT OF USE should be directed to "}{
\f1\cf17\insrsid7031788\charrsid6711404 Box ITU / FEE}{\f1\insrsid7031788 ."}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 (See page 5 for an explanation of these terms.)
\par 
\par The applicant should indicate its telephone number on the application form.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Once a serial number is assigned to the application, the applicant should refer to the serial number in all written and telephone communications concerning the application.
\par 
\par It is advisable to submit a stamped, self-addressed postcard with the application specifically listing each item in the mailing, that is, the written application, the drawing, the fee, and the specimens (if appropriate).}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{
\f1\insrsid7031788 The PTO will stamp the filing date and serial number of the application on the postcard to acknowledge receipt.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
This will help the applicant if any item is later lost or if the applicant wishes to inquire about the application.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The PTO will send a separate official notification of the filin
g date and serial number for every application about two months after receipt.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid3240127 Use of the "TM," "SM" and "\'ae" Symbols
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par Anyone who claims rights in a mark may use the TM (trademark) or SM (service mark) designation with the mark to alert the public to the claim.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
It is not necessary to have a registration, or even a pending application, to use these designations.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The claim may or may not be valid.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The registration symbol, \'ae
, may only be used when the mark is registered in the PTO.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 It is improper to use this symbol at any point before the registration issues.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Please omit all symbols from the mark in the drawing you submit with your application; the symbols are not considered part of the mark.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par }{\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid7622999 {\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft10880\shptop1750\shpright11000\shpbottom1930\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz6\shplid1032
{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 393216}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}
{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190           }{
\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{\insrsid9374105  &}{
\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969  Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD 
COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190 
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8198\dptxbx\dptxlrtb{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{
\insrsid9374105  &}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969  Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD 
COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190 
\par }}\dpx10880\dpy1750\dpxsize120\dpysize180\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat1\dplinehollow}}}}{\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par }{\f1\insrsid617114 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid3240127 Information Numbers
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }\trowd \irow0\irowband0\ts11\trgaph108\trleft108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6319\clshdrawnil 
\cellx6427\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2692\clshdrawnil \cellx9119\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid5129414 {
\f1\insrsid7031788 General Trademark or Patent Information\cell (703) 308-HELP\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\f1\insrsid7031788 \trowd \irow0\irowband0
\ts11\trgaph108\trleft108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6319\clshdrawnil \cellx6427\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2692\clshdrawnil \cellx9119\row }\trowd \irow1\irowband1
\ts11\trgaph108\trleft108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6319\clshdrawnil \cellx6427\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2692\clshdrawnil \cellx9119\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
Automated (Recorded) General Trademark or Patent Information\cell (703) 557-INFO\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\f1\insrsid7031788 \trowd \irow1\irowband1
\ts11\trgaph108\trleft108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6319\clshdrawnil \cellx6427\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2692\clshdrawnil \cellx9119\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
Automated Line for Status Information on Trademark Applications
\par (Additional status information is available at (703) 308-9400)\cell (703) 305-8747 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\f1\insrsid7031788 \trowd \irow2\irowband2
\ts11\trgaph108\trleft108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6319\clshdrawnil \cellx6427\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2692\clshdrawnil \cellx9119\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
Assignment & Certification Branch (Assignments, Changes of Name, and Certified Copies of Applications and Registrations)\cell (703) 308-9723\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\trowd \irow3\irowband3\ts11\trgaph108\trleft108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6319\clshdrawnil 
\cellx6427\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2692\clshdrawnil \cellx9119\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid5129414 {
\f1\insrsid7031788 Trademark Assistance Center\cell (703) 308-9000\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\f1\insrsid7031788 \trowd \irow4\irowband4
\ts11\trgaph108\trleft108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6319\clshdrawnil \cellx6427\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2692\clshdrawnil \cellx9119\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
Information Regarding Renewals [Sec. 9], Affidavits of Use [Sec. 8], Incontestability [Sec. 15], or Correcting a Mistake on a Registration \cell 
\par (703) 308-9500\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\f1\insrsid7031788 \trowd \irow5\irowband5\ts11\trgaph108\trleft108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6319\clshdrawnil \cellx6427\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrdb\brdrw15 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2692\clshdrawnil \cellx9119\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
Information Regarding Applications Based on International Agreements or for Certification, Collective, or Collective Membership Marks \cell (703) 308-9000\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\f1\insrsid7031788 \trowd \irow6\irowband6\ts11\trgaph108\trleft108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrnone 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6319\clshdrawnil \cellx6427\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrnone \clbrdrr\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2692\clshdrawnil \cellx9119\row }\trowd \irow7\irowband7
\ts11\trgaph108\trleft108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6319\clshdrawnil \cellx6427\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2692\clshdrawnil \cellx9119\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
Trademark Trial and Appeal Board\cell (703) 308-9300\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\f1\insrsid7031788 \trowd \irow7\irowband7
\ts11\trgaph108\trleft108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6319\clshdrawnil \cellx6427\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2692\clshdrawnil \cellx9119\row }\trowd \irow8\irowband8\lastrow 
\ts11\trgaph108\trleft108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6319\clshdrawnil \cellx6427\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2692\clshdrawnil \cellx9119\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
Assistant Commissioner for Trademarks\cell (703) 308-8900\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\f1\insrsid7031788 \trowd \irow8\irowband8\lastrow 
\ts11\trgaph108\trleft108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrnone \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6319\clshdrawnil \cellx6427\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrdb\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrdb\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2692\clshdrawnil \cellx9119\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {
\b\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 THE REGISTRATION PROCESS
\par }{\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid3240127 Filing Date - Filing Receipt
\par }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par The PTO is responsible for the 
federal registration of trademarks. When an application is received, the PTO reviews it to determine if it meets the minimum requirements for receiving a filing date. If the application meets the filing requirements, the PTO assigns it a serial number and
 sends the applicant a receipt about two months after filing. If the minimum requirements are not met, the entire mailing, including the filing fee, is returned to the applicant.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }{\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid3240127 Examination
\par }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par About four months after filing, an examining attorney at the P
TO reviews the application and determines whether the mark may be registered. If the examining attorney determines that the mark cannot be registered, the examining attorney will issue a letter listing any grounds for refusal and any corrections required 
i
n the application. The examining attorney may also contact the applicant by telephone if only minor corrections are required. The applicant must respond to any objections within six months of the mailing date of the letter, or the application will be aban
doned. If the applicant's response does not overcome all objections, the examining attorney will issue a final refusal. The applicant may then appeal to the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, an administrative tribunal within the PTO.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  
}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par A common ground for r
efusal is likelihood of confusion between the applicant's mark and a registered mark. This ground is discussed on pages 2 and 3. Marks which are merely descriptive in relation to the applicant's goods or services, or a feature of the goods or services, ma
y also be refused.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Marks consisting of geographic terms or surnames may also be refused. Marks may be refused for other reasons as well.
\par }{\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid3240127 Publication for Opposition
\par }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par If there are no objections, or if the applicant overcomes all objections, the examining at
torney will approve the mark for publication in the Official Gazette, a weekly publication of the PTO. The PTO will send a NOTICE OF PUBLICATION to the applicant indicating the date of publication.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }{\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid7622999 {\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft-1421\shptop-225\shpright-1301\shpbottom12915\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt0\shpz7\shplid1033
{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 458752}}{\sp{\sn txflTextFlow}{\sv 2}}{\sp{\sn hspNext}{\sv 1033}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 
\f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525              }{\insrsid9374105 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525 . 2002. Al
l rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States and Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THI
S PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL AUTOMATICALLY BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8199\dptxbx\dptxbtlr{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525              }{\insrsid9374105 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid7682525 . 2002. Al
l rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States and Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THI
S PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL AUTOMATICALLY BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }}\dpx-1421\dpy-225\dpxsize120\dpysize13140\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat0\dplinehollow}}}
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft10693\shptop-1435\shpright10933\shpbottom-1255\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz8\shplid1034{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 524288}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{
\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{\insrsid9374105  &}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969  Canada and by international 
treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190 
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8200\dptxbx\dptxlrtb{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{
\insrsid9374105  &}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969  Canada and by international 
treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190 
\par }}\dpx10693\dpy-1435\dpxsize240\dpysize180\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat1\dplinehollow}}}}{\f1\insrsid7031788 In the case of 
two or more applications for similar marks, the PTO will publish the application with the earliest effective filing date first.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Any party who believes it may be damaged by the registration of the mark has 30 days from the date of publication to file an opposition to registration.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
An opposition is similar to a formal proceeding in the federal courts, but is held before the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
If no opposition is filed, the application enters the next stage of the registration process.
\par }{\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid3240127 Issuance of Certificate of Registration or Notice of Allowance
\par }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par If the application was based upon the actual use of the mark in commerce prior to approval for publication, the PTO will register the mark and issue a registration certificate about 12 weeks a
fter the date the mark was published, if no opposition was filed.
\par 
\par If, instead, the mark was published based upon the applicant's statement of having a bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce, the PTO will issue a NOTICE OF ALLOWANCE}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 about 12 weeks
 after the date the mark was published, again provided no opposition was filed.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The applicant then has six months from the date of the NOTICE OF ALLOWANCE}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
to either (1) use the mark in commerce and submit a STATEMENT OF USE, or (2) request a six-month EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE A STATEMENT OF USE (see forms and instructions in this booklet).}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
The applicant may request additional extensions of time only as noted in the instructions on the back of the extension form.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 If the STATEMENT OF USE is filed and approve
d, the PTO will then issue the registration certificate.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\b\f1\insrsid5129414 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 FILING REQUIREMENTS
\par 
\par }{\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid3240127 WARNING:}{\f1\insrsid3169065\charrsid3240127  }{\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid3240127 BEFORE COMPLETING AN APPLICATION,}{\f1\insrsid3169065\charrsid3240127  }{\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid3240127 
READ THE INSTRUCTIONS CAREFULLY AND STUDY THE EXAMPLES PROVIDED.}{\f1\insrsid3169065\charrsid3240127  }{\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid3240127 ERRORS OR OMISSIONS MAY RESULT IN THE DENIAL OF A FILING DATE AND THE RETURN OF APPLICATION}{
\f1\insrsid3169065\charrsid3240127  }{\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid3240127 PAPERS, }{\i\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid3240127 OR}{\f1\insrsid7031788\charrsid3240127  THE DENIAL OF REGISTRATION AND FORFEITURE OF THE FILING FEE.
\par }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par To receive a filing date, the applicant must provide all of the following:
\par 
\par \tab 1.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 A }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 written application}{\f1\insrsid7031788  form;
\par \tab 2.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 A }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 drawing}{\f1\insrsid7031788  of the mark on a separate piece of paper;
\par \tab 3.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The required filing }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 fee }{\f1\insrsid7031788 (see page 11 for fee information); and 
\par }\pard \qj \li360\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin360\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 4. If the application is filed based upon prior use of the mark in commerce, }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 three specimens}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
 for each class of goods or services.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The specimens must show actual use of the mark with the goods or services.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
The specimens may be identical or they may be examples of three different uses showing the same mark.
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\b\f1\insrsid7031788 1.}{\b\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 WRITTEN APPLICATION FORM [PTO FORM 1478]}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par The application must be in English.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 A separate application must be filed for each mark the applicant wishes to register.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Likewise, if the applicant wishes to register more than one version of the same mark, a separate application must be filed for each version.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 PTO Form 147
8 included in the back of this booklet may be used for either a trademark or service mark application.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 It may be photocopied for your convenience.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
See the examples of completed applications on pages 16 and 17 with references to the following line-by-line instructions.
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par LINE-BY-LINE}{\b\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING OUT PTO FORM 1478, ENTITLED "TRADEMARK/SERVICE MARK APPLICATION,}{\b\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 PRINCIPAL REGISTER, WITH DECLARATION"}{\f1\insrsid7031788 

\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Space 1 -- The Mark
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid7622999 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft10865\shptop2024\shpright10985\shpbottom2204\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz9\shplid1035{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 589824}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{
\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{\insrsid9374105  &}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 
 Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PAR
TY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190 
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8201\dptxbx\dptxlrtb{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9374105 \f140\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid11677950 Corporation}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{
\insrsid9374105  &}{\insrsid9374105\charrsid13762969  Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PAR
TY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid9374105\charrsid9180190 
\par }}\dpx10865\dpy2024\dpxsize120\dpysize180\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat1\dplinehollow}}}}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par Indicate the mark (for example, "THEORYTEC" or "PINSTRIPES AND DESIGN").}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 This should agree with the mark shown on the drawing page.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 If there is a discrepancy 
between the mark described in the written application and the mark displayed in the drawing, the drawing controls.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Space 2 -- Classification
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par It is not necessary to fill in this box.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The PTO will determine the proper International Classification based upon the identification of the goods and services in the application.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{
\f1\insrsid7031788 However, if the applicant knows the International Class number(s) for the goods and services, the applicant may place the number(s) in this box.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The International Classes are listed inside
 of the back cover of this booklet.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
If the PTO determines that the goods and services listed are in more than one class, the PTO will notify the applicant during examination of the application, and the applicant will have the opportunity to pay the fees fo
r any additional classes or to limit the goods and services to one or more classes.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Space 3 -- The Owner of the Mark
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par The name of the owner of the mark must be entered in this box.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The application must be filed in the name of the owner of the mark or the 
application will be void, and the applicant will forfeit the filing fee. The owner of the mark is the party who controls the nature and quality of the goods sold, or services rendered, under the mark.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
The owner may be an individual, a partnership, a corporation, or an association or similar firm. If the applicant is a corporation, the applicant's name is the name under which it is incorporated.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant's name is the name under which it is organized.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Space 4 -- The Owner's Address
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par Enter the applicant's business address.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 If the applicant is an individual, enter either the applicant's business or home address.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Space 5 -- Entity Type and Citizenship/Domicile
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par The applicant must check the box which indicates the type of entity applying.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 In addition, in the blank following the box, the applicant must specify the following information:}{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }\pard \qj \li360\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin360\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Space 5(a) -- for an }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 individual}{\f1\insrsid7031788 , the applicant's national citizenship;
\par 
\par Space 5(b) -- for a }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 partnership}{\f1\insrsid7031788 , the names and national citizenship of the general partners and the state where the partnership is organized (if a U.S. partnership) or country (if a foreign partnership);
\par 
\par Space 5(c) -- for a }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 corporation}{\f1\insrsid7031788 , the state of incorporation (if a U.S. corporation), or country (if a foreign corporation); or 
\par 
\par Space 5(d) -- for another type of entity, specify the nature of the entity and the state where it is organized (if in the U.S.) or country where it is organized (if a foreign entity).
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Space 6 -- Identification of the Goods and/or Services
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par In this blank the applicant must state the specific goods and services for which registration is sought and with which the applicant has actually used the mark in commerce, or in the case of an "intent-to-use" application, h
as a bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Use clear and concise terms specifying the actual goods and services by their common commercial names.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
A mark can only be registered for specific goods and services.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The goods and services listed will establish the scope of the applicant's rights in the relevant mark.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 

\par 
\par The goods and services listed must be the applicant's actual "goods in trade" or the actual services the applicant renders for the benefit of others.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Use language that would be readily un
derstandable to the general public.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
For example, if the applicant uses or intends to use the mark to identify "candy," "word processors," "baseballs and baseball bats," "travel magazines," "dry cleaning services" or "restaurant services" the identification
 should clearly and concisely list each such item.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
If the applicant uses indefinite terms, such as "accessories," "components," "devices," "equipment," "food," "materials," "parts," "systems," "products," or the like, then those words must be followed by t
he word "namely" and the goods or services listed by their common commercial name(s).}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Note that the terms used in the classification listing on the inside of the back cover of this booklet are generally too broad.
}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Do not use these terms by themselves.}{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par The applicant must be very careful when identifying the goods and services.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Because the filing of an application establishes certain presumptions of rights as of the filing date, the application may not}{
\b\f1\insrsid7031788  be amended later to add any products or services not within the scope of the identification.}{\b\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
For example, the identification of "clothing" could be amended to "shirts and jackets," which narrows the scope, but could not be amended to "retail clothing store services," which would change the scope. Similarly, "ph
ysical therapy services" could not be changed to "medical services" because this would broaden the scope of the identification.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Also, if the identification includes a trade channel limitation, deleting that limitation would broaden the scope of the identification.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par The }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 identification of goods and services}{\f1\insrsid7031788  must not describe }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 the mode}{\f1\insrsid7031788  of use of the mark, such as on labels, stationery, menus, signs, containers or in advertising.}{
\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 There is another place on the application, called the "method-of-use clause," for this kind of information.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
(See information under Space 7a, fourth blank, described on the next page.)}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 For example, in the identification of goods and services, the term "advertising" usually is intended to identify a service rendered by 
advertising agencies.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Moreover, "labels," "menus," "signs" and "containers" are specific goods.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
If the applicant identifies these goods or services by mistake, the applicant may not amend the identification to the actual goods or services of the applicant.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Thus, if the identification indicates "menus," it could not be amended to "restaurant services." Similarly, if the goods are identified as "containers or labels for jam," the identification could not be amended to "jam."
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 NOTE:}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 If nothing appears in this 
blank, or if the identification does not identify any recognizable goods or services, the application will be denied a filing date and returned to the applicant.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
For example, if the applicant specifies the mark itself or wording such as "company name," "corporate name," or "company logo," and nothing else, the application will be denied a filing date and returned to the applicant.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{
\f1\insrsid7031788 If the applicant identifies the goods and services too broadly as, for example, "advertising and business," "miscellaneous," "mi
scellaneous goods and services," or just "products," or "services," the application will also be denied a filing date and returned to the applicant.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Space 7 -- Basis for Filing
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par The applicant must check at least one of the four boxes to specify a basis for filing the application.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The applicant should also fill in all blanks which follow the checked box(es).}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{
\f1\insrsid7031788 Usually an application is based upon either (1) use of the mark in commerce (the first box), or (2) a bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce (the second box).}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 
You may not check both the first and second box.}{\b\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 If both the first and second boxes are checked, the PTO will }{\b\i\f1\insrsid7031788 not}{\b\f1\insrsid7031788  accept the application and will return it.}{
\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 If an applicant wishes to apply to register a mark, for certain goods and services
 for which it is already using the mark in commerce, and also for other goods and services based on future use, separate applications must be filed to separate the relevant goods and services from each other.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Space 7(a)
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par If the applicant is using the mark in commerce in relation to all of the goods and services listed in the application, check this first box and fill in the blanks.
\par 
\par In the }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 first blank}{\f1\insrsid7031788  specify the date the trademark was first used to identify the goods and services in a type of commerce which may be regulated by Congress.
\par 
\par In the }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 second blank}{\f1\insrsid7031788  specify the type of commerce, specifically a type of commerce which may be regulated by Congress, in which the goods were sold or shipped, or the services were rendered.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  
}{\f1\insrsid7031788 (See page 2 for a discussion of the meaning of "use in commerce.")}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
For example, indicate "interstate commerce" (commerce between two or more states) or commerce between the United States and a specific foreign country, for example, "commerce between the U.S. and Canada."}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par In the }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 third blank}{\f1\insrsid7031788  specify the date that the mark was first used anywhere to identify the goods or services specified in the application.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
This date will be the same as the date of first use in commerce unless the applicant made some use, for example, within a single state, before the first use in commerce.
\par 
\par In the }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 fourth blank}{\f1\insrsid7031788  specify how the mark is placed on the goods or used with the services.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
This is referred to as the "method-of-use clause," and should not be confused with the identification of the goods and services described under Space 6.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
For example, in relation to goods, state "the mark is used on labels affixed to the goods,"}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 or "the mark is used on containers for the goods," whichever is accurate.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
In relation to services, state "the mark is used in advertisements for the services." 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Space 7(b)
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par If the applicant has a bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce in relation to the goods or services specified in the application, check this second box and fill in the blank.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Th
e applicant should check this box if the mark has not been used at all or if the mark has been used on the specified goods or services only within a single state.
\par 
\par In the blank, state how the mark is intended to be placed on the goods or used with the services.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
For example, for goods, state "the mark will be used on labels affixed to the goods," or "the mark will be used on containers for the goods," whichever is accurate.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
For services, state "the mark will be used in advertisements for the services."
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Spaces 7(c) and (d)
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par These spaces are usually used only by applicants from foreign countries who are filing in the United States under international agreements.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 These applications are less common.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{
\f1\insrsid7031788 For further information about treaty-based applications, call the trademark information number listed in this booklet on page 4, or contact a private attorney.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Space 8 -- Verification and Signature
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par The applicant must verify the truth and accuracy of the information in the application and must sign the application.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The declaration in Space 8, on the back of the form, is for this purpose.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  
}{\f1\insrsid7031788 If the application is not signed, the application will not be granted a filing date and will be returned to the applicant.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 If the application is not signed by an appropriate person, t
he application will be found void and the filing fee will be forfeited.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Therefore, it is important that the proper person sign the application.
\par 
\par Who should sign?
\par 
\par \bullet \tab If the applicant is an }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 individual}{\f1\insrsid7031788 , that }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 individual }{\f1\insrsid7031788 must sign.
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li384\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin384\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 \bullet If the applicant is a }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 partnership}{\f1\insrsid7031788 , a }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 general partner}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
 must sign.
\par 
\par \bullet If the applicant is a }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 corporation, association or similar organization}{\f1\insrsid7031788 , an }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 officer}{\f1\insrsid7031788  of the corporation, association or organization must sign.}{
\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 An officer is a person who holds an office established in the articles of incorporation or the bylaws.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 Officers may not delegate this authority to non officers}{
\f1\insrsid7031788 .
\par 
\par \bullet If the applicants are }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 joint applicants}{\f1\insrsid7031788 , all joint applicants must sign.
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 The person who signs the application must indicate the date signed, provide a telephone nu
mber to be used if it is necessary to contact the applicant, and clearly print or type their name and position.
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid3240127 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 2.}{\b\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 THE DRAWING PAGE
\par 
\par Every application must include a single drawing page.}{\b\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 If there is no drawing page, the application will be denied a filing date and returned to the applicant.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
The PTO uses the drawing to file the mark in the PTO search records and to print the mark in the Official Gazette and on the registration.
\par 
\par The drawing must be on pure white, durable, non-shiny paper that is 8\'bd (21.59 cm) inches wide by 11 (27.94 cm) inches long.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
There must be at least a one-inch (2.54 cm) margin on the sides, top and bottom of the page, and at least one inch between the heading and the display of the mark.
\par 
\par At the top of the drawing there must be a }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 heading}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
, listing on separate lines, the applicant's complete name, address, the goods and services specified in the application, and in applications based on use in commerce, the date of first use of the mark and the date of first use of the mark in commerce.}{
\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 This heading should be typewritten.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 If the drawing is in special form, the heading should include a description of the essential elements of the mark.
\par 
\par The }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 drawing of the mark}{\f1\insrsid7031788  should appear at the center of the page.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The drawing of the mark may be }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 typewritten}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
, as shown on page 19, or it may be in }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 special form}{\f1\insrsid7031788 , as shown on page 18.
\par 
\par If the mark includes words, numbers or letters, the applicant can usually elect to submit either a typewritten or a special-form drawing.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 To register a mark consisting of only wo
rds, letters or numbers, without indicating any particular style or design, provide a typewritten drawing.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
In a typewritten drawing the mark must be typed entirely in CAPITAL LETTERS, even if the mark, as used, includes lower-case letters.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Use a standard t
ypewriter or type of the same size and style as that on a standard typewriter.
\par 
\par To indicate color, use the color linings shown below.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The appropriate lining should appear in the area where the relevant color would appear.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
If the drawings is lined for color, insert a statement in the written application to indicate so, for example, "The mark is lined for the colors red and green."}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
A plain black-and-white drawing is acceptable even if the mark is used in color.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Most drawings do not indicate specific colors.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par Be careful in preparing the drawing.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 While it may be possible to make some minor changes, the rules prohibit any material change to the drawing of the mark after filing.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 

\par 
\par To register a word mark in the form in which it is actually used or intended to be used in commerce, or any mark including a design, submit a }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 special-form}{\f1\insrsid7031788  drawing.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
In a special-form drawing, the mark must not be larger than 4 inches by 4 inches (10.16 cm by 10.16 cm).}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
If the drawing of the mark is larger than 4 inches by 4 inches, the application will be denied a filing date and returned to the applicant. In addition, the drawing must appear only in black and white, with every line and letter black and clear.}{
\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 No color or gray is allowed.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Do not combine typed matter and special form in the same drawing.
\par 
\par The drawing in special form must be a substantially exact representation of the mark as it appears on the specimens.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The applicant may apply to register any 
portion of a mark consisting of more than one element, provided the mark displayed in the drawing creates a separate impression apart from other elements it appears with on the specimens.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
For example, generally it is possible to register a word mark by itself even though the specimen shows the word mark used in combination with a design or as part of a logo.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Do not include non trademark matter in the drawing, such as informational matter which may appear on a label.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 In the end, the applicant must decide exactly what to register and in what form.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }
{\f1\insrsid7031788 The PTO considers the drawing controlling in determining exactly what mark the application covers.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 3.}{\b\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 FEES
\par }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Filing Fee
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par The }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 application filing fee }{\f1\insrsid7031788 is }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 $245.00}{\f1\insrsid7031788  for }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 each class}{\f1\insrsid7031788  of goods or services listed.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{
\f1\insrsid7031788 (See the International Classification of Goods and Services listed on the inside of the back cover.)}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 
At least $245.00 must accompany the application, or the application will be denied a filing date and all the papers returned to the applicant.}{\b\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Fee increases, when necessary, usually take effect on October 1 of any given year.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Please call the general information number listed on page 4 for up-to-date fee information if filing after September 1995.}{
\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The PTO receives no taxpayer funds.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 The PTO's operations are supported entirely from fees paid by applicants and registrants.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Additional Fees Related to Intent-To-Use Applications
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par In addition to the application filing fee, applicants filing based on a bona fide intention to use a mark in commerce must submit a fee of }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 $100.00}{\f1\insrsid7031788  for }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 each class}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
 of goods or services in the application when filing any of the following:
\par 
\par \tab \bullet }{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 an AMENDMENT TO ALLEGE}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 USE
\par \tab \bullet }{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 a STATEMENT OF USE
\par \tab \bullet }{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 a REQUEST FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE A STATEMENT OF USE
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Form of Payment
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par All payments must be made in United States currency, by check, post office money order or certified check.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Personal or business checks may be submitted.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Make checks and money orders payable to:}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 The Assistant Commissioner for Trademarks}{\f1\insrsid7031788 . 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 NOTE:}{\b\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 FEES ARE NOT REFUNDABLE.}{\b\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid3240127 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 4.}{\b\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 SPECIMENS
\par }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par The following information is designed to provide guidance regarding the specimens required to show use of the mark in commerce.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 When to File the Specimens
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par If the applicant has already used the mark in commerce and files based on this use in commerce, then the applicant must submit }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 three specimens per class}{\f1\insrsid7031788  showing use of the mark in commerce with the application.}
{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 If, instead, the application is based on a bona fide intention to use mark in commerce, the applicant must submit }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 three specimens per class}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
 at the time the applicant files either an AMENDMENT TO ALLEGE}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 USE or a STATEMENT OF USE.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 What to File as a Specimen
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par The specimens must be actual samples of how the mark is being used in commerce.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 The specimens may be identical or they may be examples of three different uses showing the same mark.}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par If the mark is used on }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 goods}{\f1\insrsid7031788 , examples of acceptable specimens are tags or labels which are attached to the goods, c
ontainers for the goods, displays associated with the goods, or photographs of the goods showing use of the mark on the goods themselves.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
If it is impractical to send an actual specimen because of its size, photographs or other acceptable reproductions that show the mark on the goods, or packaging for the goods, must be furnished.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Invoices, announcements, order forms, bills of lading, leaflets, brochures, catalogs, publicity releases, letterhead, and business cards generally are not acceptable specimens for goods.
\par 
\par If the mark is used for }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 services, }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
examples of acceptable specimens are signs, brochures about the services, advertisements for the services, business cards or stationery showing the mark in connection with the services, or photographs which show the mark either as it is used}{
\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 in the rendering or advertising of the services.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 In the case of a service mark, the specimens must either show the mark and include some clear reference to the t
ype of services rendered under the mark in some form of advertising, or show the mark as it is used in the rendering of the service, for example on a store front or the side of a delivery or service truck.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par Specimens may not be larger than 8\'bd inches by 11 inches (21.59 cm by 27.94 cm) and must be flat.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 See pages 18 through 22 for samples of some different types of specimens.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{
\f1\insrsid7031788 Smaller specimens, such as labels, may be stapled to a sheet of paper and labeled "SPECIMENS."}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 A separate sheet can be used for each class.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR 
\par INTENT-TO-USE APPLICATIONS}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par An applicant who files its application based on having a bona fide intention to use a mark in commerce must make use of the mark in commerce before the mark can register.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 After use in commerc
e begins, the applicant must submit:
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li360\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin360\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 1.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 three specimens evidencing use as discussed above;
\par 2.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 a fee of }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 $100.00}{\f1\insrsid7031788  per class of goods or services in the application; and 
\par 3.}{\b\f1\insrsid7031788  either }{\f1\insrsid7031788 (1) an AMENDMENT TO ALLEGE}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 USE if the application has not yet been approved for publication (use PTO Form 1579) }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 or}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
 (2) a STATEMENT OF USE if the mark has been published and the PTO has issued a NOTICE OF ALLOWANCE}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 (use PTO Form 1580).
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 If the applicant will not make use of the mark in commerce within six months of the NOTICE OF ALLOWANCE, }{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 the applicant must file}{
\f1\insrsid7031788  a REQUEST FOR AN EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE A STATEMENT OF USE}{\b\f1\insrsid7031788 , }{\f1\insrsid7031788 or the application is abandoned.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 (Use PTO Form 1581, which is in
tended only for this purpose.)
\par }{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par See the instructions and information on the back of the forms.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
The previous information about specimens, identifications of goods and services and dates of use is also relevant to filing an AMENDMENT TO ALLEGE USE or STATEMENT OF USE.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Follow the instructions on these forms carefully.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Failure to file the necessary papers in proper form within the time provided may result in abandonment of the application.
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\b\f1\insrsid7031788 PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE SERVICES
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\b\f1\insrsid7031788 Trademark Assistance Center
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\b\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 In 
order to provide improved service to trademark applicants, registrants, and the general public, the Patent and Trademark Office has implemented a pilot program called the "Trademark Assistance Center."}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
The Center provides general information about the trademark registration process and responds to inquiries pertaining to the status of specific trademark applications and registrations.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
The location of the Center is 2900 Crystal Drive, Room 4B10, Arlington, Virginia 22202-3513.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Assistance may be obtained in-person or by dialing (703) 308-9000, Monday through Friday,}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{
\f1\insrsid7031788 8:30 a.m. -5:00 p.m. eastern time, except holidays.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Please note that personal assistance concerning trademark as well as patent matters will continue to be available at}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{
\f1\insrsid7031788 (703) 308-HELP and}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 recorded information will continue to be available at (703) 557-INFO.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Also, automated information about the status of}{
\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 trademark applications and registrations will continue to be available at (703) 305-8747.
\par }{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\b\f1\insrsid7031788 Patent and Trademark Depository Libraries}{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\f1\insrsid7031788 Patent and Trademark Depository Libraries (PTDLs) receive patent and trademark information in various formats from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.}{
\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Many PTDLs have on file all trademarks published since 1872.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 All PTDLs have the trademark sections of the }{\i\f1\insrsid7031788 Official 
Gazette of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office}{\f1\insrsid7031788 .}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
Trademark search systems on CD-ROM format are available at all PTDLs to increase utilization of and enhance access to the information found in trademarks.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 It is through the CD-ROM systems that preliminary tr
ademark searches can be conducted through the numerically arranged collections.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 
\par 
\par All information is available for use by the public free of charge.}{\f1\insrsid3169065  }{\f1\insrsid7031788 Facilities for making paper copies of trademark information are generally provided for a fee.
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri6\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin6\lin0\itap0\pararsid5129414 {\b\f1\insrsid3240127 
\par }}