{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f159\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f160\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f162\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f163\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f164\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f165\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f166\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f167\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f169\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f170\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f172\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f173\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f174\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f175\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f176\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f177\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid4930693 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden \styrsid4930693 footnote text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \styrsid4930693 footer;}{\*\cs17 \additive \sbasedon10 \styrsid4930693 page number;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 \styrsid4930693 header;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid922519\rsid1312256\rsid2436300\rsid3040049\rsid3299929
\rsid3565200\rsid3633934\rsid4026219\rsid4930693\rsid6775813\rsid7682525\rsid9180190\rsid9322317\rsid9457984\rsid13504816\rsid13762969\rsid16149555}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info{\author Envision Corporation}
{\doccomm \'a9 Copyright Envision Corporation. 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States & Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENS
E OR SUBLICENSE, }{\operator Envision}{\creatim\yr2002\mo4\dy6\hr11\min19}{\revtim\yr2002\mo10\dy5\hr10\min4}{\version7}{\edmins10}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords1259}{\nofchars7180}{\*\company Envision Corporation}{\nofcharsws8423}{\vern16437}}
\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1440\dgvorigin1440\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot9457984 \fet0\sectd 
\psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid3565200\sftnbj {\header \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4026219 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\f1\fs13\cf8\insrsid4026219\charrsid4026219 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\f1\fs13\cf8\insrsid16149555 Corporation}{\f1\fs13\cf8\insrsid4026219\charrsid4026219 . 2002. Al
l rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States & Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS 
PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4930693 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\qc \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto
\s15\qc \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\pnrdate-2042066259\pnrnot1\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid6775813 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft10745\shptop14220\shpright10865\shpbottom14400\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz3\shplid1026{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 65536}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1312256 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{
\insrsid16149555 Corporation}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{\insrsid1312256  &}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969  Canada and by international trea
ties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190 
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8195\dptxbx\dptxlrtb{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1312256 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid16149555 Corporation}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{
\insrsid1312256  &}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969  Canada and by international trea
ties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190 
\par }}\dpx10745\dpy14220\dpxsize120\dpysize180\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat1\dplinehollow}}}
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft10573\shptop-1570\shpright10813\shpbottom-1390\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz2\shplid1027{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 131072}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1312256 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{
\insrsid16149555 Corporation}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{\insrsid1312256  &}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 
 Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DI
SCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190 
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8194\dptxbx\dptxlrtb{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1312256 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid16149555 Corporation}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{
\insrsid1312256  &}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969  Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DI
SCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190 
\par }}\dpx10573\dpy-1570\dpxsize240\dpysize180\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat1\dplinehollow}}}
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft-1541\shptop-360\shpright-1421\shpbottom12780\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt0\shpz1\shplid1028{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 196608}}{\sp{\sn txflTextFlow}{\sv 2}}{\sp{\sn hspNext}{\sv 1028}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}
{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1312256 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid1312256\charrsid7682525              }{
\insrsid1312256 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid7682525 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid16149555 Corporation}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid7682525 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws 
of the United States and Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDE
RS WILL AUTOMATICALLY BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8193\dptxbx\dptxbtlr{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1312256 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid1312256\charrsid7682525              }{\insrsid1312256 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid7682525 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid16149555 Corporation}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid7682525 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws 
of the United States and Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDE
RS WILL AUTOMATICALLY BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }}\dpx-1541\dpy-360\dpxsize120\dpysize13140\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat0\dplinehollow}}}}{\b\f1\fs32\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 IMPORTANT THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT TERMS SHEETS
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 {\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid6775813 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft0\shptop172\shpright9360\shpbottom172\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt0\shpz0\shplid1029{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 20}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn shapePath}{\sv 4}}{\sp{\sn fFillOK}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 25400}}{\sp{\sn fArrowheadsOK}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8192
\dpline\dpptx0\dppty0\dpptx9360\dppty0\dpx0\dpy172\dpxsize9360\dpysize0\dplinew40\dplinecor0\dplinecog0\dplinecob0}}}}{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid4930693 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Pre-money Valuation:\tab }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Equals the value the new investors are placing on the enterprise prior to their Investment.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
Usually, all of the outstanding stock of the company, together with any outstanding options and warrants or other rights to buy stock of the company and any additional shares which may be reserved under the option pool, will be included in this pre-money 
valuation.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4930693 {\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 {\b\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Stock Option Pool:\tab }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
The size of the option pool that venture capital investors will look for tends to range between 15% and 30% of the capital structure of the company. This percentage is calculated including the shares of Series A Preferred Sto
ck being sold in the financing.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
The actual size of the pool can depend on a number of things, including the industry that the company is in, but is primarily related to the number and types of hires that the company will need to make in the foreseeable future.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{
\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
Thus, a company that has a complete management team at the time of the Series A round will likely need a smaller pool than a company that has one or more top management hires to make (each of whom may cost the company a significant amount of options o
r stock from the pool).
\par }{\f1\insrsid4930693 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Dividend:}{
\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 \tab Often, venture capital investors also ask for an \'93accruing\'94 dividend of between 8% and 10% or so per annum.}{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 This dividend \'93accrues
\'94 and is not payable unless (i) declared by the Board, (ii) there is a liquidation event (a sale of the company is considered a liquidation event, but an IPO usually isn't), or (iii) the preferred stock is redeemed.}{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693  }{
\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 The accruing dividend is a protective device intended to provide a minimum rate of return but is usually forfeited in the event of 
an IPO or otherwise upon conversion of the preferred stock to common stock. (The theory is that in such cases the return on the investment will be more than the minimum which the accruing dividend provides. Therefore, the protection is not needed and is f
orfeited).}{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 There are a number of varieties of accruing dividends, including those that are payable in cash and those payable in additional shares of preferred stock.}{
\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Also, although a basic \'93accruing dividend\'94 involves a simple interest calculation, sometimes a so-called \'93cumulative\'94
 accruing dividend is requested, and it involves compound interest calculations.
\par }{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Conversion:}{
\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 \tab Preferred stock should convert into common stock automatically at the company\rquote s IPO.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Th
e special rights generally accorded to preferred stock sold to early-stage investors could create problems for a public company.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693 
\par }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Anti-dilution\tab }{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 These provisions are designed to protect an investor against \'93equity\'94 dilution (later sales of stock at a price 
lower than what the investor paid).}{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Although the \'93weighted average\'94 version is the most common, an alternative is \'93full ratchet\'94
 anti-dilution protection. Full-ratchet anti-dilution protection is far more advantageous to the investor (but punitive to the c
ompany) than weighted average, but it is usually reserved for very early-stage deals or other situations where there is significant concern as to whether the valuation will hold up over the long term. Put simply, weighted-average anti-dilution protection 
accounts more accurately for the actual dilutive effect which a particular issuance has on the investor\rquote s equity position in the company. Full-ratchet anti-dilution protection, on the other hand, treats all later stock issuances below the investor
\rquote s purchase price as if they were the same, regardless of the number of shares issued.
\par }{\insrsid4930693 \page }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Voting rights:}{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 \tab 
Although there are venture capital investors that ask for other veto rights, this list covers some of the most frequently requested veto rights. You may not have to provide veto rights with respect to each of these matters.}{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693  }{
\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 The key here is to try to limit veto rights to major corporate events and to try to avoid turning day-to-day operational matters into matters for a preferred stockholder vote.}{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693  }{
\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Thus, for example, (g) and (1) could be problematic if the dollar limits are too low.}{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
Often a compromise may be reached with respect to a request for a veto right on an operational matter by agreeing that such would be subject to the veto of the Series A Preferred Stock\rquote s di
rector but not at the stockholder level. That keeps the issue at the board level -- where it belongs. 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4930693 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid6775813 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft-1560\shptop-2530\shpright-1440\shpbottom10610\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt0\shpz4\shplid1030{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 262144}}{\sp{\sn txflTextFlow}{\sv 2}}{\sp{\sn hspNext}{\sv 1030}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}
{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1312256 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid1312256\charrsid7682525              }{
\insrsid1312256 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid7682525 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid16149555 Corporation}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid7682525 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States and Canada and by intern
ational treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL AUTOMATICALLY BE SUED IN A COURT OF L
AW.
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8196\dptxbx\dptxbtlr{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1312256 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid1312256\charrsid7682525              }{\insrsid1312256 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid7682525 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid16149555 Corporation}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid7682525 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States and Canada and by intern
ational treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL AUTOMATICALLY BE SUED IN A COURT OF L
AW.
\par }}\dpx-1560\dpy-2530\dpxsize120\dpysize13140\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat0\dplinehollow}}}
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft10554\shptop-3740\shpright10794\shpbottom-3560\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz5\shplid1031{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 327680}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1312256 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{
\insrsid16149555 Corporation}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{\insrsid1312256  &}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 
 Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE 
OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190 
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8197\dptxbx\dptxlrtb{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1312256 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid16149555 Corporation}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{
\insrsid1312256  &}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969  Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE 
OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190 
\par }}\dpx10554\dpy-3740\dpxsize240\dpysize180\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat1\dplinehollow}}}}{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 {\b\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Liquidation:}{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 \tab This is a so-called \'93straight\'94
 liquidation preference.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 An alternative is the \'93double dip\'94 or \'93participating\'94
 liquidation preference, which provides that the preferred stock get an amount equal to its money back (plus any accrued dividends if there is an accruing dividend) and then participates with common stock on an \'93as converted basis."}{
\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 A double-dip liquidation preference is a pricing term most often seen in early-stage deals or in \'93down rounds."
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Board of Directors:\tab }{
\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Working out what the Board will look like following the Series A round will be one of the most important matters to deal with.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
Generally, the Series A investors will ask for and receive representation on the board.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 The questions will be how many seats do they get and what effect will that have on the founders\rquote 
 and management\rquote s board representation. In the end, everybody involved will need to participate in, and be satisfied with, the decisions regarding board structure.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Options and Vesting:}{
\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 \tab Venture capital investors will likely impose a vesting schedule on stock and options held by founders, management, and employees as a condition to investment.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{
\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 If shares or options are not yet vested, they are subject to being lost if the person ceases to work for the company for any reason.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
Venture capital investors impose such vesting requirements in order to provide the company\rquote s people with a reason to stay with the company.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
Also, if a person ceases to work for the company for any reason, the nonvested shares are available for grant to his or her replacement.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
The theory here is, of course, that the best business plan is worth nothing without the people to execute it.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Redemption:}{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 \tab 
This is simply a right to achieve liquidity in the event that the company does not otherwise reach a sale or IPO by the end of the selected time period. Since the company cannot redeem stock if to do so would render th
e company insolvent, this right is useful only in situations in which the company has become some sort of a sideways play. Usually the redemption price is the price paid for the stock plus the accruing dividend, if there is one.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{
\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Occasionally, venture capital firms will request that the redemption price be at the greater of such price and the then fair market value of the stock.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
The only thing to watch out for here is to make sure that the company can pay the redemption out over time. (In my experience, three payments over two years are common.)
\par }\pard \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4930693 {\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 {\b\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Right of First Refusal:}{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 \tab 
While this is generally asked for and received by venture capital investors (who can give you a yes or no quickly without the need for elaborate disclosure documents to comply with the securit
ies laws), a company should, in my opinion, think about resisting this request if it comes from individual investors.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4930693 {\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 {\b\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Other Provisions:}{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 \tab The term sheet should be non}{
\f1\insrsid4930693 -}{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 binding (with the exception only of the exclusivity provision, if there is one, and any provisions regarding confidentiality).
\par }\pard \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6775813 {\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid6775813 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft10726\shptop2161\shpright10846\shpbottom2341\shpfhdr0\shpbxcolumn\shpbxignore\shpbypara\shpbyignore\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz6\shplid1032{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 202}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn lTxid}{\sv 393216}}{\sp{\sn fRecolorFillAsPicture}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fUseShapeAnchor}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\shptxt \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1312256 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{
\insrsid16149555 Corporation}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{\insrsid1312256  &}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 
 Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, P
UBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190 
\par }}}{\shprslt{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt8198\dptxbx\dptxlrtb{\dptxbxtext\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1312256 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190           }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 \'a9 Copyright Envision }{\insrsid16149555 Corporation}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969 . 2002. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States}{
\insrsid1312256  &}{\insrsid1312256\charrsid13762969  Canada and by international treaties. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, P
UBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.
\par }{\insrsid1312256\charrsid9180190 
\par }}\dpx10726\dpy2161\dpxsize120\dpysize180\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbgcr255\dpfillbgcg255\dpfillbgcb255\dpfillpat1\dplinehollow}}}}{\f1\insrsid4930693 \page }{\b\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Expenses:}{\b\f1\insrsid4930693 \tab 
}{\b\f1\insrsid6775813 \tab }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 The amount of expenses included in this provision depends on where the }{\f1\insrsid6775813 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid6775813 {\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 lawyers are from. Make sure that there is a cap.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
You may also want to resist any request to pay ongoing fees for the cost of complying with requests for waivers, etc., after the closing (except to the extent to which the investors incur fees because the company breaches its obligations to them).
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f1\fs20\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid4930693 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 Condition to Closing:}{
\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 \tab 
Be on the lookout for any exclusivity provisions in this clause. Usually, such exclusivity provisions require the company to refrain from taking an investment from anyone else for a set period of time after the term sheet is signed.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }
{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 While an exclusivity provision may be acceptable (and is often imposed), be sure to pay attention to the time period.}{\f1\insrsid4930693  }{\f1\insrsid4930693\charrsid4930693 
It should be no longer than is necessary to complete the transaction, with a little extra time for possible delays. In my opinion, 30 days should be acceptable i
n most instances; 60 days is pushing it in most instances; and 90 days is probably unreasonable in almost all cases. Also, make sure that the exclusivity period automatically ends in the event that the deal is called off before the period expires.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid3633934 
\par }}